# A blockchain‑based decentralized efficient investigation framework for IoT digital forensics
Authors: Jung Hyun Ryu · Pradip Kumar Sharma · Jeong Hoon Jo · Jong Hyuk Park
Journal: The Journal of Supercomputing
DOI: 10.1007/s11227-019-02779-9

# A Framework for Digital Forensics Analysis based on Semantic Role Labeling
Authors: Ravi Barreira · Vládia Pinheiro · Vasco Furtado
Conference: IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and Security Informatics, ISI
DOI: 10.1109/ISI.2017.8004876

# A new network forensic framework based on deeplearning for Internet of Things networks: A particle deep framework
Authors: Nickolaos Koroniotis · Nour Moustafa · Elena Sitnikova
Journal: Future Generation Computer Systems
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2020.03.042

# A multilayered semantic framework for integrated forensic acquisitionon social media
Authors: Humaira Arshad · Aman Jantan · Gan Keng Hoon · Anila Sahar Butt
Journal: Digital Investigation
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.002

# A machine learning-based FinTech cyber threat attribution framework using high-level indicators of compromise
Authors: Umara Noor · Zahid Anwar · Tehmina Amjad · Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo
Journal: Future Generation Computer Systems
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2019.02.013

An ML based framework for cyber threat attribution that makes use of unstructures CTI reports and extracts relevant high level indicators of compromise(IoC). The framework has three phases, collecting CTAs/APTs & CTI documents, mapping TTPs query labels with unstructured CTI & finally CTA class prediciton. The intial dataset is prepared from ATT&CK taxonomy, provided by MITRE. The framework makes use of Latent Semantic Analysis to index CTI reports. The framework trains classifiers on a correlation matrix of CTAs & TTPs to automate investigative process and attribute the cyber attacks, reports suggest that the automated classifers achieve upto 94% accuracy as compared to manually investigated IoCs.

Limitations
- The framework is dependent on availability of correct threat data

# Towards a practical cloud forensics logging framework
Authors: Ameer Pichan · Mihai Lazarescu · Sie Teng Soh
Journal: Journal of Information Security and Applications
DOI: 10.1016/j.jisa.2018.07.008

A cloud logging framework for performing cloud Forensic tasks. The framework has two parts, the software application itself and the logs generated by it. The framework is designed to run outside the control and knowledge of Cloud Service Users. The framework is embedded into the hypervisor, it generates one or more log files per Cloud Service User(CSU). All the files generated by this framework are stored in a pred-defined location. The framework conforms to ACPO guidelines, validated against NIST draft report on Cloud Forensic science challenges.

Limitations:
- The framework needs to be installed and embedded directly into the CSPs hypervisor

# Forensic framework to identify local vs synced artefacts
Authors: Jacqes Boucher · Nhien-An Le-Khac
Journal: Digital Investigation
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.009

A digital forensics framework for analysing local and synced artefacts. The framework proposes four stages for answering this question. Application Artefacts Analysis, OS Artefacts Analysis, Timeline Analysis, & Opinion Formulation. The framework describes all the steps that an analyst must take to classify weather their findings are local or synced. It involves finding artefacts from running application like URLs from google chrome and checking weather related artefacts like cookies and cache are available or not, second step is to figure out weather there were any background running activities to establish weather the device in question was turned on or off. The framework then goes on to describe timeline analysis for establishing all the events and finally formulating an opinion based on facts and findings that the analyst was able to find via past three steps.

Limitations:
- The framework relies on truthfulness of local and syncing device times and logs that they are generating
- The framework does not talk about mobile, tablet or other handheld devices that may be syncing data to the computer in question

# Data Warehousing Based Computer Forensics Investigation Framework
Authors:
Conference: 2015 12th International Conference on Information Technology - New Generations
DOI:

A digital forensics framework that tries to make the analysis process more efficient through Data Warehousing techniques. The framework has integrity preservation mechanisms, access control and a Secure Forensic Audit Trail(SFAT) module for maintaining the chain of custody of the investigation. Data Warehouse section of the framework implements Relevant Resource Identification, Resource Extraction, Resource Transformation, Resource Loading, Resource Analysis, & Evidence Preservation. All these steps ensure relevant data is extracted and saved in a common format so that it becomes easier to process. Logged activities of the investigator are encrypted in a way that only a court of law can decrypt it.

# Implementing Digital Forensic Readiness: From Reactive to Proactive Process
Authors:
Journal: Array
DOI:

In this paper, the proposed framework aims to categorize digital forensics artifacts and map them with Cyber Kill Chain(CKC) phases. It also proposes a step-by-step method for examining & analyzing cyber-attacks. The paper emphasises that its aim is to complement existing frameworks and processes. The steps include chosing a CKC phase, identifying all artifacts in that phase, correlate artifacts from one phase with others. Construct a chain of correlated artifacts and repeat. Analyze the final correlated artifacts to formulate an opinion. The paper also goes on to describe all the steps involved with a sample scenario.

Limitations
-  The paper seems to miss some parts like automation, OSINT and the analytical intracies involved during a forensics investigation. Cyber Kill Chain is more relevant for attacks attributed to APT groups.

# A new web forensic framework for bot crime investigation
Authors:
Journal: Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation
DOI:

In this article, the proposed framework makes use of user behaviour analysis to classify wheather certain logs have been generated from a human user or an automated bot. Proposed framework in the article makes use of a custom logger that can store all the required parameters that the forensic framework needs. The framework makes use of timing pattern, movement pattern, pressure and error pattern analysis to take all the parameters for their classification. The framework does not collect any PII data to safeguard privacy of users. The framework collects statistical meta data instead of real values from forms.

Limitations:
- The framework relies on obfusction, third party libraries, access to javascript on client side and secrecy of their UBA algorithm. Changes at any point may disrupt the analysis process.